it's been over a year since the last
episode of sketchy heatsinks this
project was actually probably Alex's
worst at the company it was over time
over budget and the end result was
absolutely abominable so I told him
we're not doing sketchy heatsinks again
unless you can do a better job than this
which you might think is a reasonably
low bar but then it took an entire year
to bring another concept to the table so
you're already over time and over budget
but to your credit this does look a lot
more promising
[Music]
private Internet access encrypts your
Internet traffic can use a safe
protected IP check it out today through
the link below what was just not fair at
all at all what part of it was not fair
first of all this is amazing it cool the
processor great but anyway what was not
fair about that is that I just don't
have the tools that I needed to properly
do it you had a blank check to buy the
tools you needed that's not an excuse
okay okay let's just yeah listen yeah
let's just put the past in the past all
right so the plan for this one is we're
actually going to put heat pipes into
aluminum and then have actual aluminum
fins so we're gonna try to make a hyper
212 basically yeah pretty much exactly
it's like largely ripped off of them if
you look at the design here basically
we're going to do is take one of these
guys drill six holes directly down in
then we're going to stick the heat pipes
in bend them at 90 degrees and they'll
go up through the fins which will have
also six holes in them and are you gonna
solder the heat pipes to the aluminum or
they're going to be thermal epoxy on
you can't solder them because like pipes
will explode if you eat them the only
part that really sketches me out is
bending the heat pipe which hopefully
will be done with this but I don't know
if we'll get a full 90 degrees on it
so if that doesn't work it's gonna have
to sort of come out at two angles like a
v8 far as these six I guess that's gonna
make the holes through the fins a
complete nightmare oh well have like
fins on either side well I cut them in
half and they'll like come out like this
the first order of business was to see
how far we could bend the tubes we
ordered ten heat pipes so we only have
four chances to figure this out oh man
this is this is such a terrible bender
oh my god Laurie just stuck on itself
this is about to get gross out of the
box the guide on the bender wasn't
correctly aligned how is this thing so
balls so we needed to make up some of
the slop to get consistent bends
so the working idea to made this which
goes the wrong way compared to the
tubing sizes line up correctly is to
just giver with the gaff tape hopefully
it'll work this is what you get for
buying like a $20 thing I think that'll
work will it fit so it's got the
clearance there looks good yeah that one
didn't quite work out oh that one did
not work out either
those are both totally mangled this one
right here
this one worked out so we're going 45
degrees with the heat pipe angles
decided it was time to move on to
creating the base that would sit on top
of the cpu out of aluminum stock regard
for the CPU block what we really needed
was a three and a half by three and a
half inch square but it was cheaper to
buy four inch stock so the first order
of business was to cut it down then with
our square cut down to the correct size
we needed to drill the holes for the
heat pipes to go in huh it's basically a
milling machine that's not gonna work
problem-solve perfect could not have
been better
well it definitely could have been
better but this even gonna hold this in
place
oh yeah it should be fine I didn't want
to like take the time to measure all the
holes so I just laser-cut them captain
should be fine everyone this this one is
fine that one this is gonna go through
there yep I don't think you have a plan
what I was just gonna lie appalled it
excreta though there look good not this
way
hey look it's not lazy yeah it doesn't
work only we had a rubber mallet prepare
for some lube to go everywhere
well
I'm pretty sure you're not supposed to
apply that allowance
if only we had brushes here you know I
approve everything you want to buy all
you have to do is order it but we also
literally have brushes so
I mean you wanted something to go wrong
so now we can both get our wish yeah
Lots
[Music]
I could oh yeah you want that
actually isn't as far off as I'm
expecting why are you expecting it to be
off gee I don't know
wow these don't fit that tightly they
fit tightly enough some of them are
tighter than others this one's pretty
loose how are you gonna get all that oil
out of it I was playing on just kind of
cramming a full of thermal paste and uh
you can't just slap a block of aluminum
on the CPU though since it will
interfere with the capacitors around the
socket to the side with the holes I
don't want to destroy them so that's why
I'm using the hacksaw for this I can see
this really quickly just turning into me
angle grinding
[Music]
with capacitor clearance cut and sharp
edges removed with the sander and file
the block was looking like it might work
it's drill press sometime ago
well I'll have to let you do that
yourself I have other pressing matters
to attend to
all right all right it's a good time you
know satisfied it's an excellent time no
no I'm so satisfied I don't need you to
get off to be satisfied with so much
more on the edge
haha perfect such a great fit well with
our plan fully worked out it was time to
bend the rest of the heat pipes alright
now we need to do six of these and I can
make two errors during that and I don't
know if I'm capable of that really it's
a kind of finicky and it's tool sucks
and I say that but I just made it look
easy so the other one left over we can
tell Linus to do the last one and tell
them that actually matters and see what
happens nice
well that was easy enough the problem
that we have to go over now we have all
of these sheets of aluminum yeah and
they need to go on these
yes so we need to drill these holes in
these and we need to figure a good way
to hold these clamps yeah we seem to be
on the same page here
so do we want to do half of them like
that I don't know your same to be the
expert that moved a fair bit while you
were putting it up I don't even know how
much that's gonna affect the bit
wandering that moved so much okay oh wow
how are we gonna do this professional
this is where we find out if this
project is gonna be on time or not
yeah it cuts through these like butter
they are mostly in this trade line ish
yeah just some cleaning and prep was
left until it was time to do a test fit
and make sure it would all go together
all of those clear that awesome it's
about there the fit surprisingly was
pretty good although a couple needed to
be trimmed down so that we could get the
maximum number of fins onto the heatsink
oh nice so we got this thermally
conductive adhesive from mg chemicals
which hopefully won't put between the
fins and the heat pipes will conduct
most of the heat I don't know the
thermal conductivity on it isn't great
but it's the best that we've got or that
exists really I don't think I'd
recommend putting this on your shoe
sheet
sushi sushi oh man that smells like tuna
to our choice of medium cure time epoxy
means we'd have about 45 minutes to work
with it before it cures first the heat
pipe holes in the block were filled with
n-th one thermal compound and then the
thermal epoxy was put on the end to hold
them in place
done I guess these are like almost gone
from here the heat pipes were covered in
thermal epoxy and the plan anyway was to
just jam the fins on I guess look before
I put the epoxy on I should have made
sure that all six heat pipes will go
under this all right to keep the fins
from sticking together we resorted to
some good old-fashioned Canadian
engineering using pieces of a cut-up Tim
Hortons box to space them out we
repeated this process until we were out
of fins so while you're off spending
company money on lunch actually not his
personal lunch with personal money same
thing so I basically finished it Oh
finished isn't word so don't move it too
much it's still setting but I noticed
that something I hadn't really thought
of until now all the heat pipes are
together which oh yeah probably isn't
the most efficient way to do that
no yeah it's going to be like right here
is where all the heat gets dissipated
and then this is all just work yeah I
probably the done like Oder inch or so
is doing nothing so aluminium here
doesn't help us a whole lot you probably
still been copper but it would have been
wave more difficult to machine and stuff
you're calling what you did machining
yes at this point all that was left to
do was leave it to cure overnight and
gather some comparative benchmark data
so we could determine just how good or
bad our creation really is it's really
dumb the Windows doesn't automatically
restore connection to network drives all
the time
I mean far be it from us to criticize
other people's products at this moment
though we pay for their products though
no one's buying this high paid for it
you're getting paid for it the total
cost of this monstrosity was a hundred
and seven thirty eight which is Canadian
dollars so that's two dollars less than
NHD 15 and let's find out how long it
takes to them I guess yeah I've stolen
some mounting hardware I see here this
looks like NOK to a mounting hardware
that's so cheating
now it's realized to everyone though so
I think it's okay and the first one that
wasn't mounted with zip ties so it's a
pretty big improvement we're looking for
so Intel stock heatsink okay took 40
seconds to mount okay the cooler master
hyper 212 to 9 minutes and 30 seconds
okay
so that's what we're looking to beat so
we start the time right now I'm sure
this is kind of cheating as we're using
two people but I think this thing needs
every advantage it can get hold on
though I do have to pay the bottom
actually of course this is gonna be a
hard mount now and on a spring mount cuz
our block is synthetic these aren't
gonna reach oh that's you tech you
didn't check I might still have an
old-school waterblock mount in my office
this is like training wheels off CPU
melting we could probably go a little
tighter but that's fine
no we're not gonna use a blowy on this
that's all cheating well I figured that
if that doesn't work I think rubber
bands is actually probably a better bet
yeah sure good enough
oh yeah it's 54 seconds still be too
high for 212
so the hyper 212 aisles were like 3040
degrees the Intel stock was regularly
getting up to 60 it's still 30 degrees
it's not going up yeah so did we hit it
with a load it's kind of cheating to put
like a thirty dollar fan on it too I
realize that but I just wasn't gonna
mention it look we definitely could have
just like cnc'd out the whole block got
the pipes professionally done wouldn't
even cost that much probably would cost
less than a drill press there's no fun
in exactly that's why it's our job to do
it wrong it's not even warming up like
our heat pipes with their lesser Bend
may actually have some kind of
efficiency improvement in terms of their
evaporation and condensation another
thing that we haven't really considered
is that even though our heat pipes look
like they're the same diameter they
might be like a high quality heat pipe
so we don't know if these are good heat
pipes or not I would say they are they
cost like 80 bucks and you were just
like ruining those alright hit me with
the FLIR I want to see this first whoa
it's really cool
yeah the hottest part is the fan hub
yeah like if you look at the motherboard
I mean there's the coolest spot is our
heatsink the base of our heatsink is
tops like 31 degrees as measured by this
you compare that to like this capacitor
at 35 so CPU score is 7 like 73 672 26
that compare yeah same as the hyper 212
I mean there's plenty of time for it to
buckle under a sustained load I guess
ooh
okay so that jumped right up to 83
degrees on the hottest core so far still
turbo well full turbo no throttle oh
it's still climbing though 86 degrees
yeah so our victory there might have
just been purely on mass alone so I have
the solution to this what's that we call
it a gaming heatsink then when people
say well you know under a sustained all
core abode it actually doesn't perform
as well we say well it's designed for
gaming so if we had spread out our heat
pipes more which we knew yeah was better
that's why they design it like this so
that way that little area around the
heat pipe right in the path of the most
optimal parts of the fan is exactly been
yeah and that's why it ends like a
fingers width away from the heat pipe
because you're just nothing's happening
if you have more I don't live in here
all right it hasn't thermal throttled
though or its thermal throttle but it
hasn't you know it doesn't it's not
turbo anymore it's actually no you know
it's still above base block 3.85 is
above the base three point seven o'clock
speed of an 87 mm K so do we declare
victory it's better than Intel stock
it's worse than a hyper 212 so assuming
that you have a half a dozen heat pipes
some blocks of aluminum and a bunch of
aluminum sheets a drill press some
thermal epoxy and a lot of time on your
hands you can really have a better
cooler than the Intel stock cooler that
your CPU shipped with this one didn't
though by following this method mission
accomplished boys speaking of missions
being accomplished thermal takes mission
when they were created the view 71 snow
was to make a four-sided tempered glass
case and that they pulled it off
it supports mini ITX micro ATX ATX and
the ATX motherboards it has four
tempered glass panels and the dual swing
door it allows vertical mounting options
for two and a half slot GPU solutions so
even massive graphics cards with the
riser cable sold separately it's got
3-way radiator support so top front
or vertical and it includes two of their
ring 140 millimeter white LED fans and
you can check out the full details at
the link in the video description so
thanks for watching you guys I know it
was painful if you dislike this video
you can hit that button but if you liked
it it like get subscribed or maybe
consider checking out where to buy the
things that are actually any good that
we feature typically yeah your
description
these fans are good too also down there
is our merch store which has cool shirts
like this one and our community forum
which you should totally join my hot
yeah